The impact of the mechanics of the montary system both on a national
and international level is perhabs unsurpassed, for it is the monetary
system that provides the foundations for international dominance and
national control.

The need for open and honest dialog on the future of the monetary system
has never been greater.

Statistical analysis has found that everytime an empire begins to near
its own demise, you'll find that its currency will be debased.

Pre-industrialization, there was multiple forms of money co-existing. The
rise of government-sponsored fiat money is a relatively recent phenomenon.

If everybody starts saving, the amount of money in the economy shrinks and
we have a recession.

Money is the center of the economy. If you don't understand where it comes
from, who creates it, and when it gets created, then how can you understand
the entire economy.

To have a healthy growing economy, the government needs to put in place
strategies to allow for ever-increasing debt.

Fiat money: A medium of exchange, which the issuer does not promise to redeem
in a commodity, and is based on confidence.

Historically, money creation was pegged to a commodity, often gold, but today
it is pegged to nothing.

There is nothing backing our money.

Since the collapse of the dollar gold standard in 1971 and the deregulation of
the financial system, money creation has grown exponentially.

If you want a growing economy, under the current setup, we have to have growing debt.

An increase in the money supply = A likely relative increase in economic activity.

Inflation is a rise in the general level of prices of goods and services in an economy
over a period of time. When the general price level rises, each unit of currency
buys fewer goods and services.

Increasing house prices may make you feel like you're becoming wealthier, but as your 
wealth increases the effect is that your children's wealth is actually decreasing.
There is no net gain in wealth because your children are going to have to pay even more
when they want to buy a house. It's a zero-sum game.

If money goes into house mortgages, that's an increase of the amount of money in the economy
without a corresponding increase in activity, in output, in GDP.

House mortgages are a speculative asset an not a productive investment. Banks are in
a position to choose which one money flows to, and they prefer the former.

Houses are both a necessity and a luxury, and as such they are ideal as a vehicle for
money and bubble creation.

Inflating house prices allows a nation to expand its money supply without affecting inflation
data. The additional purchasing power created increases the perceived wealth in relation to
other nations. And thus it creates relative power. It is a way of increasing monetary power
without investing in the productive growth of industry.

